Update how-to-write-secure-ballerina-code learn material (#1500)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-www: website/two-column-pages/docs/learn/how-to-write-secure-ballerina-code.md

    }
};
```

```ballerina
public type InboundCustomAuthProvider object {

    *auth:InboundAuthProvider;

    public function authenticate(string credential) returns boolean|auth:Error {
        // Custom logic to authenticate the given credential.
    }
};
```

### JWT Authentication and Authorization

Ballerina supports JWT Authentication and Authorizations for services. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to extract the HTTP `Authorization` header from the request and extract the credential from the header value which is `Bearer <token>`. Then the extracted credential will be passed to the initialized AuthProvider and get validated. The `jwt:InboundJwtAuthProvider` is used to validate the credential (JWT) passed by the AuthHandler against the `jwt:JwtValidatorConfig` provided by the user.

JWT validation requires several additional configurations for `jwt:JwtValidatorConfig` including:

* `issuer` - The issuer of the JWT.
* `audience` - The audience value for the current service.
* `clockSkewInSeconds` - Clock skew in seconds that can be used to avoid token validation failures due to clock synchronization problems.

> * `trustStore` - A trust store containing trusted public key certificates of issuers (used for signature validation).

Author: It is updated with https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/pull/17549 in latest master.

## Authentication and Authorization

### Inbound Authentication & Authorization

> Ballerina HTTP services can be configured to enforce authentication and authorization. Ballerina has built-in supports for the following inbound authentication mechanisms whereas it is possible to add custom mechanisms: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina HTTP services can be configured to enforce authentication and authorization. Ballerina has built-in support for the following inbound authentication mechanisms whereas it is possible to add custom mechanisms: 
```

> Ballerina HTTP services can be configured to enforce authentication and authorization. Ballerina has built-in supports for the following inbound authentication mechanisms, whereas it is possible to add custom mechanisms: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina HTTP services can be configured to enforce authentication and authorization. Ballerina has built-in supports for the following inbound authentication mechanisms whereas it is possible to add custom mechanisms: 
```

- Basic authentication
- JWT authentication
- OAuth2 authentication

> - LDAP authentication. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- LDAP authentication
```

Ballerina inbound authentication is abstracted out into 2 layers called `http:InboundAuthHandler` and `auth:InboundAuthProvider`.

> `auth:InboundAuthProvider` is protocol independent entity that only knows how to authenticate a user given necessary information. `http:InboundAuthHandler` can be protocol dependent. Even-though current focus is HTTP, `ballerina/auth` module can act across other protocols as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`auth:InboundAuthProvider` is a protocol-independent entity that only knows how to authenticate a user when the necessary information is provided. The `http:InboundAuthHandler` can be protocol dependent. Even-though the current focus is on HTTP, the `ballerina/auth` module can operate with other protocols as well.
```

> `auth:InboundAuthProvider` is a protocol-independent entity that only knows how to authenticate a user when the necessary information is provided. The `http:InboundAuthHandler` can be protocol dependent. Even-though the current focus is on HTTP, the `ballerina/auth` module can operate with other protocols as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `auth:InboundAuthProvider` is a protocol-independent entity that only knows how to authenticate a user when the necessary information is provided. The `http:InboundAuthHandler` can be protocol dependent. Even-though the current focus is on HTTP, the `ballerina/auth` module can operate with other protocols as well.
```

> The `http:InboundAuthHandler` is used to perform HTTP level actions which are extracting the required HTTP header or body and extracting the credential out of it and passing into associated `auth:InboundAuthProvider` and get the credential validated. The `auth:InboundAuthProvider` is used to validate the credential passed by the `http:InboundAuthHandler`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `http:InboundAuthHandler` is used to perform HTTP-level actions, which are extracting the required HTTP header or body, extracting the credentials out of it, passing them into the associated `auth:InboundAuthProvider`, and getting the credentials validated. The `auth:InboundAuthProvider` is used to validate the credentials passed by the `http:InboundAuthHandler`.
```

> In a particular authentication scheme, implemented instance of `auth:InboundAuthProvider` is initialized with required configurations and it is passed to the implemented instance of `http:InboundAuthHandler`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a particular authentication scheme, the implemented instance of the `auth:InboundAuthProvider` is initialized with the required configurations and it is passed to the implemented instance of the `http:InboundAuthHandler`.
```

> Next, the implemented instance of  `http:InboundAuthHandler` is passed to the `http:Listener` configuration as follows and the listener is initialized with authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, the implemented instance of  the `http:InboundAuthHandler` is passed to the `http:Listener` configuration as follows and the listener is initialized with authentication.
```

> The following example represents how a listener is secured with Basic auth with above mentioned configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example represents how a listener is secured with Basic Auth with the above-mentioned configurations.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/auth;
import ballerina/http;

auth:InboundBasicAuthProvider basicAuthProvider = new;
http:BasicAuthHandler basicAuthHandler = new(basicAuthProvider);

listener http:Listener secureHelloWorldEp = new(9091, {
    auth: {
        authHandlers: [basicAuthHandler]
    },
    secureSocket: {
        keyStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaKeystore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
service helloWorld on secureHelloWorldEp {
// ....
```

_Note: It is a must to use HTTPS when enforcing authentication and authorization checks, to ensure the confidentiality of sensitive authentication data._

> Optionally `scopes` attribute is configured for the authorization as follows. If it is not specified, that means service is authorized to any user who is authenticated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Optionally, the `scopes` attribute is configured for the authorization as follows. If it is not specified, that means the service is authorized for any authenticated user.
```

```ballerina
listener http:Listener secureHelloWorldEp = new(9091, {
    auth: {
        authHandlers: [authHandler],
        scopes: ["test-scope"]
    },
    secureSocket: {
        keyStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaKeystore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
service helloWorld on secureHelloWorldEp {

> // ....

Reviewer: Shall we add ending `}` here?

Author: Fixed with https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-www/pull/1500/commits/18f77d6aec7b021684b045ad96edd8b30a9bb206

> // ....

Author: ```suggestion
// ....
}
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```
```

#### Advanced Use Cases

##### Using Multiple Auth Handlers

> The `authHandlers` can be configured for advanced use case, which is to use multiple auth handlers as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `authHandlers` can be configured for advanced use cases, which use multiple auth handlers as follows:
```

            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
service helloWorld on secureHelloWorldEp {
// ....
```

##### Using Multiple Scopes

The `scopes` can be configured for advanced use cases as follows:

Case 1: Auth should be successful for `scope-1` OR `scope-2`.
`scopes: ["scopes-1", "scopes-2"]`

Case 2: Auth should be successful for `scope-1` AND `scope-2`.
`scopes: [["scopes-1"], ["scopes-2"]]`

Case 3: Auth should be successful for ((`scope-1` OR `scope-2`) AND (`scope-3` OR `scope-4`)).
`scopes: [["scopes-1", "scopes-2"], ["scopes-3", "scopes-4"]]`

```ballerina
listener http:Listener secureHelloWorldEp = new(9091, {
    auth: {
        authHandlers: [authHandler],
        scopes: ["scopes-1", "scopes-2"]
    },
    secureSocket: {
        keyStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaKeystore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
service helloWorld on secureHelloWorldEp {
// ....
```

##### Per-Resource and Per-Service Customization

The security enforcements can be customized by the `@http:ServiceConfig` annotation and the `@http:ResourceConfig` annotation.

> For example, authentication and authorization can be modified for a particular service as follows by configuring `auth` attribute of `@http:ServiceConfig`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, authentication and authorization can be modified for a particular service as follows by configuring the `auth` attribute of the `@http:ServiceConfig`.
```

> * authentication can be disabled only for a particular service by using the `enabled` attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Authentication can be disabled only for a particular service by using the `enabled` attribute.
```

> * authentication mechanism can be changed for a particular service by using the `authHandlers` attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The authentication mechanism can be changed for a particular service by using the `authHandlers` attribute.
```

> * authorization scopes can be changed for a particular service by using the `scopes` attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Authorization scopes can be changed for a particular service by using the `scopes` attribute.
```

```ballerina
@http:ServiceConfig {
    basePath: "/hello",
    auth: {
        enabled: false,
        authHandlers: [authHandlerA],
        scopes: ["scope-A"]
    }
}
service helloWorld on secureHelloWorldEp {
// ...
```

> Further, authentication and authorization can be modified for a particular resource as follows by configuring `auth` attribute of `@http:ResourceConfig`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Further, authentication and authorization can be modified for a particular resource as follows by configuring the `auth` attribute of the`@http:ResourceConfig`:
```

> Further, authentication and authorization can be modified for a particular resource as follows by configuring the `auth` attribute of the`@http:ResourceConfig`:

Author: ```suggestion
Further, authentication and authorization can be modified for a particular resource as follows by configuring the `auth` attribute of the `@http:ResourceConfig`:
```

```ballerina
@http:ResourceConfig {
    basePath: "/",
    auth: {
        enabled: false,
        authHandlers: [authHandlerA],
        scopes: ["scope-A"]
    }
}
resource function sayHello (http:Caller caller, http:Request req) {
// ...
```

> The same configuration patterns used for the listener level configuration are applied for `authHandlers` and `scopes` attributes in service level configurations and resource level configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same configuration patterns used for the listener-level configurations are applied for `authHandlers` and the`scopes` attributes in service-level configurations and resource-level configurations.
```

##### Implementing Custom Authentication Mechanism

> The user can implement a custom version of AuthHandler and AuthProvider with the use of object equivalency pattern as follows. With that, `http:Listener` can be enforced with custom authentication and authorization mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The user can implement a custom version of AuthHandler and AuthProvider with the use of the object-equivalency pattern as follows. With that, the `http:Listener` can be enforced with custom authentication and authorization mechanisms.
```

> The same configuration patterns used for the listener-level configurations are applied for `authHandlers` and the`scopes` attributes in service-level configurations and resource-level configurations.

Author: ```suggestion
The same configuration patterns used for the listener-level configurations are applied for `authHandlers` and the `scopes` attributes in service-level configurations and resource-level configurations.
```

```ballerina
public type InboundCustomAuthHandler object {

    *http:InboundAuthHandler;

    public function canProcess(http:Request req) returns @tainted boolean {
        // Custom logic to check whether the request can be processed.
    }
    
    public function process(http:Request req) returns boolean|http:AuthenticationError {

>         // Custom logic to process the request, extract the credential and get it validated from AuthProvider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Custom logic to process the request, extract the credentials, and get them validated from the AuthProvider.
```

    }
};
```

```ballerina
public type InboundCustomAuthProvider object {

    *auth:InboundAuthProvider;

    public function authenticate(string credential) returns boolean|auth:Error {

>         // Custom logic to authenticate the given credential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // Custom logic to authenticate the given credentials.
```

    }
};
```

##### Disable HTTPS Enforcement

> The enforcement of HTTPS can be disabled with configuring the value `mandateSecureSocket` into `false` as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The enforcement of HTTPS can be disabled by configuring the value `mandateSecureSocket` into `false` as follows:
```

```ballerina
listener http:Listener secureHelloWorldEp = new(9091, {
    auth: {
        authHandlers: [authHandler],
        mandateSecureSocket: false
    },
    secureSocket: {
        keyStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaKeystore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
service helloWorld on secureHelloWorldEp {
// ....
```

##### Modify Authn/Authz Filter Index

> The authn/authz filters are engaged as the top most filters of the filter array which is configured at HTTP listener configuration. The uer can configure the index of the authn/authz filters, if it is needed to engage a custom filter before the authn/authz filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The authn/authz filters are engaged as the top most filters of the filter array, which is configured in the HTTP listener configuration. The uer can configure the index of the authn/authz filters if it is needed to engage a custom filter before the authn/authz filters.
```

The `position` attribute represents the authn/authz filter position of the filter array. The position values starts from 0 and it is set to 0 implicitly.

> The following example engage the authn/authz filters in between the `customFilter1` and `customFilter2`. Then the internally updated filter chain would be `[customFilter1, authnFilter, authzFilter, customFilter2]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example engages the authn/authz filters in between the `customFilter1` and `customFilter2`. Then, the internally-updated filter chain would be `[customFilter1, authnFilter, authzFilter, customFilter2]`.
```

```ballerina
listener http:Listener secureHelloWorldEp = new(9091, {
    auth: {
        authHandlers: [authHandler],
        position: 1
    },
    filters: [customFilter1, customFilter2],
    secureSocket: {
        keyStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaKeystore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
service helloWorld on secureHelloWorldEp {
// ....
```

### JWT Inbound Authentication and Authorization

> Ballerina supports JWT Authentication and Authorizations for services. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to extract the HTTP `Authorization` header from the request and extract the credential from the header value which is `Bearer <token>`. Then the extracted credential will be passed to the initialized AuthProvider and get validated. The `jwt:InboundJwtAuthProvider` is used to validate the credential (JWT) passed by the AuthHandler against the `jwt:JwtValidatorConfig` provided by the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports JWT Authentication and Authorizations for services. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to extract the HTTP `Authorization` header from the request and extract the credential from the header value which is `Bearer <token>`. Then the extracted credential will be passed to the initialized AuthProvider and get validated. The `jwt:InboundJwtAuthProvider` is used to validate the credentials (JWT) passed by the AuthHandler against the `jwt:JwtValidatorConfig` provided by the user.
```

> JWT validation requires several additional configurations for `jwt:JwtValidatorConfig` including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JWT validation requires several additional configurations for the `jwt:JwtValidatorConfig` including:
```

* `issuer` - The issuer of the JWT.
* `audience` - The audience value for the current service.
* `clockSkewInSeconds` - Clock skew in seconds that can be used to avoid token validation failures due to clock synchronization problems.
* `trustStoreConfig` - JWT trust store configurations.
  * `trustStore` - Trust store used for signature verification.

>   * `certificateAlias` - Token signed public key certificate alias.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `certificateAlias` - Token-signed public key certificate alias.
```

> * `jwtCache` - Cache used to store parsed JWT information as CachedJwt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `jwtCache` - Cache used to store parsed JWT information as `CachedJwt`.
```

> `jwt:JwtValidatorConfig` record should be provided into `jwt:InboundJwtAuthProvider` when initializing and the initialized `jwt:InboundJwtAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler` when initializing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `jwt:JwtValidatorConfig` record should be provided into the `jwt:InboundJwtAuthProvider` when initializing. The initialized `jwt:InboundJwtAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler.
```

> _Note: For demonstration purposes we use `ballerinaTruststore.p12` included with Ballerina runtime. In a production deployment, the truststore should only contain the public key certificates of the trusted JWT issuers._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Note: For demonstration purposes, the `ballerinaTruststore.p12` included with Ballerina runtime is used. In a production deployment, the truststore should only contain the public key certificates of the trusted JWT issuers._
```

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*
> Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiJiYWxsZX
JpbmEiLCJpc3MiOiJiYWxsZXJpbmEiLCJleHAiOjI4MTg0MTUwMTksImlhdCI6MTUyNDU3NTAxOSwia
nRpIjoiZjVhZGVkNTA1ODVjNDZmMmI4Y2EyMzNkMGMyYTNjOWQiLCJhdWQiOlsiYmFsbGVyaW5hIiwi
YmFsbGVyaW5hLm9yZyIsImJhbGxlcmluYS5pbyJdLCJzY29wZSI6ImhlbGxvIn0.bNoqz9_DzgeKSK6
ru3DnKL7NiNbY32ksXPYrh6Jp0_O3ST7WfXMs9WVkx6Q2TiYukMAGrnMUFrJnrJvZwC3glAmRBrl4BY
CbQ0c5mCbgM9qhhCjC1tBA50rjtLAtRW-JTRpCKS0B9_EmlVKfvXPKDLIpM5hnfhOin1R3lJCPspJ2e
y_Ho6fDhsKE3DZgssvgPgI9PBItnkipQ3CqqXWhV-RFBkVBEGPDYXTUVGbXhdNOBSwKw5ZoVJrCUiNG
5XD0K4sgN9udVTi3EMKNMnVQaq399k6RYPAy3vIhByS6QZtRjOG8X93WJw-9GLiHvcabuid80lnrs2-
mAEcstgiHVw
>

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< content-type: text/plain
<
Hello, World!
```

### OAuth2 Inbound Authentication and Authorization

> Ballerina supports OAuth2 Authentication and Authorizations for services. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to extract the HTTP `Authorization` header from the request and extract the credential from the header value which is `Bearer <token>`. Then the extracted credential will be passed to the initialized AuthProvider and get validated. The `oauth2:InboundOAuth2Provider` is used to validate the credential passed by the AuthHandler against the introspection endpoint configured at `oauth2:IntrospectionServerConfig`, which is provided by the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports OAuth2 Authentication and Authorization for services. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to extract the HTTP `Authorization` header from the request and extract the credentials from the header value, which is the `Bearer <token>`. Then, the extracted credentials will be passed to the initialized AuthProvider to get them validated. The `oauth2:InboundOAuth2Provider` is used to validate the credentials passed by the AuthHandler against the introspection endpoint configured at `oauth2:IntrospectionServerConfig`, which is provided by the user.
```

> OAuth2 token validation requires several additional configurations for `oauth2:IntrospectionServerConfig` including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OAuth2 token validation requires several additional configurations for the `oauth2:IntrospectionServerConfig` including:
```

* `url` - URL of the introspection server.
* `tokenTypeHint` - A hint about the type of the token submitted for introspection.

> * `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations which calls the introspection server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations, which calls the introspection server.
```

> `oauth2:IntrospectionServerConfig` record should be provided into `oauth2:InboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:InboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler` when initializing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `oauth2:IntrospectionServerConfig` record should be provided into the `oauth2:InboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:InboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler`.
```

    url: "https://localhost:9196/oauth2/token/introspect",
    tokenTypeHint: "access_token"
});
http:BearerAuthHandler oauth2Handler = new(oauth2Provider);

listener http:Listener secureHelloWorldEp = new(9091, {
    auth: {
        authHandlers: [oAuth2Handler]
    },
    secureSocket: {
        keyStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaKeystore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});

@http:ServiceConfig {
    basePath: "/hello"
}
service helloWorld on secureHelloWorldEp {

    @http:ResourceConfig {
        methods: ["GET"],
        path: "/"
    }
    resource function sayHello(http:Caller caller, http:Request req) {
        http:Response resp = new;
        resp.setTextPayload("Hello, World!");
        checkpanic caller->respond(resp);
    }
}
```

When the service is invoked without authentication information or invalid authentication information, an authentication failure will occur:

```
curl -k -v https://localhost:9091/hello

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*
> 
< HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
< content-type: text/plain
< 
Authentication failure
```

> Once a request is made with a valid, authentication information, but if the introspection endpoint does not response with the "scope" attribute of the response JSON payload or response with the "scope" attribute which are not the expected scopes, an authorization failure will occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a request is made with a valid, authentication information, but if the introspection endpoint does not respond with the "scope" attribute of the response JSON payload or respond with the "scope" attribute, which are not the expected scopes, an authorization failure will occur.
```

```
curl -k -v https://localhost:9091/hello -H "Authorization:Bearer <token>"

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*
> Authorization:Bearer <token>
>

< HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
< content-type: text/plain
<
Authorization failure
```

> A request which gets a successful response from introspection endpoint with a correct "scope" attribute will result in a successful invocation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A request, which gets a successful response from the introspection endpoint with a correct "scope" attribute will result in a successful invocation.
```

```
curl -k -v https://localhost:9091/hello -H 'Authorization: Bearer <token>'

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*
> Authorization: Bearer <token>
>

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< content-type: text/plain
<
Hello, World!
```

### LDAP Inbound Authentication and Authorization

> Ballerina supports LDAP Authentication and Authorizations for services. The `http:BasicAuthHandler` is used to extract the HTTP `Authorization` header from the request and extract the credential from the header value which is `Basic <token>`. Then the extracted credential will be passed to the initialized AuthProvider and get validated. The `ldap:InboundLdapAuthProvider` is used to validate the credential passed by the AuthHandler against the LDAP server configured at `ldap:LdapConnectionConfig`, which is provided by the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports LDAP Authentication and Authorizations for services. The `http:BasicAuthHandler` is used to extract the HTTP `Authorization` header from the request and extract the credentials from the header value, which is `Basic <token>`. Then, the extracted credentials will be passed to the initialized AuthProvider to get validated. The `ldap:InboundLdapAuthProvider` is used to validate the credentials passed by the AuthHandler against the LDAP server configured at `ldap:LdapConnectionConfig`, which is provided by the user.
```

> LDAP token validation requires several additional configurations for `ldap:LdapConnectionConfig` including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LDAP token validation requires several additional configurations for the `ldap:LdapConnectionConfig` including:
```

* `domainName` - Unique name to identify the user store.
* `connectionURL` - Connection URL to the LDAP server.

> * `connectionName` - The username used to connect to the LDAP server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `connectionName` - The username to connect to the LDAP server.
```

* `userEntryObjectClass` - Object class used to construct user entries.
* `userNameAttribute` - The attribute used for uniquely identifying a user entry.
* `userNameSearchFilter` - Filtering criteria used to search for a particular user entry.
* `userNameListFilter` - Filtering criteria for searching user entries in the LDAP server.
* `groupSearchBase` - DN of the context or object under which the group entries are stored in the LDAP server.
* `groupEntryObjectClass` - Object class used to construct group entries.
* `groupNameAttribute` - The attribute used for uniquely identifying a group entry.
* `groupNameSearchFilter` - Filtering criteria used to search for a particular group entry.
* `groupNameListFilter` - Filtering criteria for searching group entries in the LDAP server.
* `membershipAttribute` - Define the attribute that contains the distinguished names (DN) of user objects that are in a group.
* `userRolesCacheEnabled` -  To indicate whether to cache the role list of a user.
* `connectionPoolingEnabled` - Define whether LDAP connection pooling is enabled.
* `connectionTimeoutInMillis` - Timeout in making the initial LDAP connection.

> * `readTimeoutInMillis` - The value of this property is the read timeout in milliseconds for LDAP operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `readTimeoutInMillis` -  Read timeout in milliseconds for LDAP operations.
```

* `retryAttempts` - Retry the authentication request if a timeout happened.
* `secureClientSocket` - The SSL configurations for the LDAP client socket. This needs to be configured in order to communicate through LDAPs.

> `ldap:LdapConnectionConfig` record should be provided into `ldap:InboundLdapAuthProvider` when initializing and the initialized `ldap:InboundLdapAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BasicAuthHandler` when initializing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ldap:LdapConnectionConfig` record should be provided into the `ldap:InboundLdapAuthProvider` when initializing and the initialized `ldap:InboundLdapAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BasicAuthHandler`.
```

**sample-users.toml**
```
[b7a.users]

[b7a.users.userA]
password="@sha256:{cd2eb0837c9b4c962c22d2ff8b5441b7b45805887f051d39bf133b583baf6860}"

[b7a.users.userB]
password="@sha384:{1249e15f035ed34786a328d9fdb2689ab24f7c7b253d1b7f66ed92a679d663dd502d7beda59973e8c91a728b929fc8cd}"

[b7a.users.userC]
password="@sha512:{9057ff1aa9509b2a0af624d687461d2bbeb07e2f37d953b1ce4a9dc921a7f19c45dc35d7c5363b373792add57d0d7dc41596e1c585d6ef7844cdf8ae87af443f}"
```

Once the service is restarted with the first configuration file in place, the 'generalUser' will not be able to invoke the service due to authorization failure:

```
curl -k -v -u generalUser:password https://localhost:9091/hello

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*

< HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
< content-type: text/plain
<
Authorization failure
```

'Admin' user will be able to invoke the service:

```
curl -k -v -u admin:password https://localhost:9091/hello

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< content-type: text/plain
<
Hello, World!
```

---

### Outbound Authentication & Authorization

> Ballerina outbound authentication is also abstracted out into 2 layers called `http:OutboundAuthHandler` and `auth:OutboundAuthProvider`.

Reviewer 3: It's better to justify the two layered approach here also.

The `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` is used to create the credential according to the provided configurations. The `http:OutboundAuthHandler` is used to get the created credential from `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` and perform HTTP level actions which are adding the required HTTP headers or body using the received credential.

> Ballerina supports Basic authentication, JWT authentication and OAuth2 authentication. Ballerina HTTP client can be configured to enforce authentication and authorization.

Reviewer 3: IMO this should be the 1st para. 
```suggestion
Ballerina HTTP client can be configured to send authentication and authorization information to the endpoint being invoked. Ballerina has built-in support for the following outbound authentication mechanisms, whereas it is possible to add custom mechanisms:

- Basic authentication
- JWT authentication
- OAuth2 authentication. 

```

In a particular authentication scheme, implemented instance of `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` is initialized with required configurations and it is passed to the implemented instance of `http:OutboundAuthHandler`.

Next, the implemented instance of  `http:OutboundAuthHandler` is passed to the `http:Client` configuration as follows and the client is initialized with authentication.

```ballerina
http:Client secureHelloWorldClient = new("https://localhost:9092", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: authHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

_Note: It is better to use HTTPS when enforcing authentication and authorization checks, to ensure the confidentiality of sensitive authentication data._

> Further, a user can implement a custom version of AuthHandler and AuthProvider with the use of object equivalency pattern as follows. With that, `http:Client` can be enforced with custom authentication and authorization mechanisms.

Reviewer 3: Let's move this to a separate section as suggested for inbound.

```ballerina
public type OutboundCustomAuthHandler object {

    *http:OutboundAuthHandler;

    public function prepare(http:Request req) returns http:Request|http:AuthenticationError {
        // Custom logic to prepare the request.
    }

    public function inspect(http:Request req, http:Response resp) returns http:Request|http:AuthenticationError? {
        // Custom logic to inspect the request after the initial outbound call.
    }
};
```

```ballerina
public type OutboundCustomAuthProvider object {

    *auth:OutboundAuthProvider;

    public function generateToken() returns string|auth:Error {
        // Custom logic to generate the token. 
    }

    public function inspect(map<anydata> data) returns string|auth:Error? {
        // Custom logic to inspect the data map received from the AuthHandler. 
    }
};
```

> ### JWT Authentication

Reviewer 3: Shall we add the word "Outbound" and "Inbound" to all the titles across the post. It'll make the individual titles much clearer. 

```suggestion
#### JWT Outbound Authentication
```

`jwt:JwtIssuerConfig` record should be provided into `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` when initializing and the initialized `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler` when initializing.

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/jwt;

jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider jwtAuthProvider = new({
    username: "ballerinaUser",
    issuer: "ballerina",
    audience: ["ballerina.io"],
    keyStoreConfig: {
        keyAlias: "ballerina",
        keyPassword: "ballerina",
        keyStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaKeystore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
http:BearerAuthHandler jwtAuthHandler = new(jwtAuthProvider);

http:Client downstreamServiceEP = new("https://localhost:9091", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: jwtAuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

The `http:Client` defined in the program calls the the `http:Listener` which is secured with JWT authentication (Same example used in JWT inbound authentication).

> #### OAuth2 Authentication

Reviewer 3: We'll have to nest the other subjects accordingly. 
```suggestion
#### OAuth2 Outbound Authentication
```

Ballerina supports OAuth2 Authentication for clients. It supports Client Credentials grant type, Password grant type and Direct Token mode, which is, the credentials can be provided manually and after that refreshing is handled internally.

The `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is used to create a token against the configuration provided by the user. It can be `oauth2:ClientCredentialsGrantConfig`, `oauth2:PasswordGrantConfig` or `oauth2:DirectTokenConfig` according the grant type user required. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to add the HTTP `Authorization` header with the value received from the AuthProvider as `Bearer <token>`.

> ###### Client Credentials Grant Type

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Client Credentials Grant Type
```

OAuth2 token issuing requires several additional configurations for `oauth2:ClientCredentialsGrantConfig` including:

* `tokenUrl` - Token URL for the authorization endpoint.
* `clientId` - Client ID for the client credentials grant authentication.
* `clientSecret` - Client secret for the client credentials grant authentication.
* `scopes` - Scope of the access request.
* `clockSkewInSeconds` - Clock skew in seconds.
* `retryRequest` - Retry the request if the initial request returns a 401 response.

> * `credentialBearer` - How authentication credentials are sent to the authorization endpoint.

Reviewer 3: Shall we list down the options as sub-items

* `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations which calls the authorization endpoint.

`oauth2:ClientCredentialsGrantConfig` record should be provided into `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler` when initializing.

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/oauth2;

oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider oauth2Provider = new({
    tokenUrl: "https://localhost:9196/oauth2/token/authorize",
    clientId: "3MVG9YDQS5WtC11paU2WcQjBB3L5w4gz52uriT8ksZ3nUVjKvrfQMrU4uvZohTftxStwNEW4cfStBEGRxRL68",
    clientSecret: "9205371918321623741",
    scopes: ["token-scope1", "token-scope2"]
});
http:BearerAuthHandler oauth2AuthHandler = new(oauth2Provider);

http:Client downstreamServiceEP = new("https://localhost:9091", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: oauth2AuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

> ###### Password Grant Type

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Password Grant Type
```

`oauth2:PasswordGrantConfig` record should be provided into `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler` when initializing.

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/oauth2;

oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider oauth2Provider = new({
    tokenUrl: "https://localhost:9196/oauth2/token/authorize",
    username: "johndoe",
    password: "A3ddj3w",
    clientId: "3MVG9YDQS5WtC11paU2WcQjBB3L5w4gz52uriT8ksZ3nUVjKvrfQMrU4uvZohTftxStwNEW4cfStBEGRxRL68",
    clientSecret: "9205371918321623741",
    scopes: ["token-scope1", "token-scope2"],
    refreshConfig: {
        refreshUrl: "https://localhost:9196/oauth2/token/refresh",
        scopes: ["token-scope1", "token-scope2"]
    }
});
http:BearerAuthHandler oauth2AuthHandler = new(oauth2Provider);

http:Client downstreamServiceEP = new("https://localhost:9091", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: oauth2AuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

> ###### Direct Token Mode

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
##### Direct Token Mode
```

Token issuing requires several additional configurations for `auth:Credential` including:

* `username` - The username for Basic authentication.
* `password` - The password for Basic authentication.

`auth:Credential` record should be provided into `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` when initializing and the initialized `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BasicAuthHandler` when initializing.

```ballerina
import ballerina/auth;
import ballerina/http;

auth:OutboundBasicProvider basicAuthProvider = new({
    username: "user",
    password: "ballerina"
});
http:BasicAuthHandler basicAuthHandler = new(basicAuthProvider);

http:Client downstreamServiceEP = new("https://localhost:9091", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: basicAuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

#### Token Propagation for Outbound Authentication

> Ballerina supports token propagation for outbound authentication. If the user does not provides any configuration when initializing the `auth:OutboundAuthProvider`, the token propagation is happened.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports token propagation for outbound authentication. The token propagation happens if the user does not provides any configuration when initializing the `auth:OutboundAuthProvider`.
```

> The `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` reads the token/username from the `runtime:InvocationContext` according to the outbound authentication scheme and use that for the outbound request.

Reviewer 3: Let's mention that `runtime:InvocationContext` is initialized based on the authentication information from the inbound request.

}
```

When the service is invoked without authentication information or invalid authentication information, an authentication failure will occur:

```
curl -k -v https://localhost:9091/hello

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*
> 
< HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
< content-type: text/plain
< 
Authentication failure
```

> Once a request is made with a valid, authentication information, but if the LDAP server response with a empty group list or unexpected scopes, an authorization failure will occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a request is made with a valid, authentication information, but if the LDAP server responds with an empty group list or unexpected scopes, an authorization failure will occur.
```

Authorization failure
```

> A request which gets a successful response from LDAP server for the "scope" request, will result in a successful invocation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A request, which gets a successful response from the LDAP server for the "scope" request will result in a successful invocation.
```

```
curl -k -v https://localhost:9091/hello -H 'Authorization: Basic <token>'

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*
> Authorization: Bearer <token>
>

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< content-type: text/plain
<
Hello, World!
```

### Basic Auth Inbound Authentication and Authorization

> Ballerina supports Basic Authentication and Authorizations for services. The `http:BasicAuthHandler` is used to extract the HTTP `Authorization` header from the request and extract the credential from the header value which is `Basic <token>`. Then the extracted credential will be passed to the initialized AuthProvider and get validated. The `jwt:InboundBasicAuthProvider` is used to read the user information from the configuration file and authenticate the credential passed by the AuthHandler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports Basic Authentication and Authorizations for services. The `http:BasicAuthHandler` is used to extract the HTTP `Authorization` header from the request and extract the credential from the header value, which is the `Basic <token>`. Then, the extracted credentials will be passed to the initialized AuthProvider and gets validated. The `jwt:InboundBasicAuthProvider` is used to read the user information from the configuration file and authenticate the credentials passed by the AuthHandler.
```

Also, the passwords can be hashed and provided with the configuration file. The following example file introduces three users along with the passwords hashed with `sha256`, `sha384`, and `sha512` hashing algorithms.

**sample-users.toml**
```
[b7a.users]

[b7a.users.userA]
password="@sha256:{cd2eb0837c9b4c962c22d2ff8b5441b7b45805887f051d39bf133b583baf6860}"

[b7a.users.userB]
password="@sha384:{1249e15f035ed34786a328d9fdb2689ab24f7c7b253d1b7f66ed92a679d663dd502d7beda59973e8c91a728b929fc8cd}"

[b7a.users.userC]
password="@sha512:{9057ff1aa9509b2a0af624d687461d2bbeb07e2f37d953b1ce4a9dc921a7f19c45dc35d7c5363b373792add57d0d7dc41596e1c585d6ef7844cdf8ae87af443f}"
```

Once the service is restarted with the first configuration file in place, the 'generalUser' will not be able to invoke the service due to authorization failure:

```
curl -k -v -u generalUser:password https://localhost:9091/hello

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*

< HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
< content-type: text/plain
<
Authorization failure
```

> 'Admin' user will be able to invoke the service:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
'Admin' users will be able to invoke the service:
```

```
curl -k -v -u admin:password https://localhost:9091/hello

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> User-Agent: curl/7.47.0
> Accept: */*

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< content-type: text/plain
<
Hello, World!
```

---

### Outbound Authentication & Authorization

> Ballerina HTTP client can be configured to send authentication and authorization information to the endpoint being invoked. Ballerina has built-in support for the following outbound authentication mechanisms, whereas it is possible to add custom mechanisms:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Ballerina HTTP client can be configured to send authentication and authorization information to the endpoint being invoked. Ballerina has built-in support for the following outbound authentication mechanisms, whereas it is possible to add custom mechanisms:
```

- Basic authentication
- JWT authentication

> - OAuth2 authentication. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- OAuth2 authentication
```

Ballerina outbound authentication is also abstracted out into 2 layers called `http:OutboundAuthHandler` and `auth:OutboundAuthProvider`.

> `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` is protocol independent entity that only knows how to generate credential with the user given necessary information. `http:OutboundAuthHandler` can be protocol dependent. Even-though current focus is HTTP, `ballerina/auth` module can act across other protocols as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` is a protocol-independent entity, which only knows how to generate credentials with the necessary information provided by the user. The `http:OutboundAuthHandler` can be protocol dependent. Even-though the current focus is on HTTP, the `ballerina/auth` module can operate with other protocols as well.
```

> The `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` is used to create the credential according to the provided configurations. The `http:OutboundAuthHandler` is used to get the created credential from `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` and perform HTTP level actions which are adding the required HTTP headers or body using the received credential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` is used to create the credentials according to the provided configurations. The `http:OutboundAuthHandler` is used to get the created credentials from the `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` and perform HTTP-level actions, which are adding the required HTTP headers or body using the received credentials.
```

> In a particular authentication scheme, implemented instance of `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` is initialized with required configurations and it is passed to the implemented instance of `http:OutboundAuthHandler`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a particular authentication scheme, the implemented instance of the `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` is initialized with required configurations and it is passed to the implemented instance of the `http:OutboundAuthHandler`.
```

> Next, the implemented instance of  `http:OutboundAuthHandler` is passed to the `http:Client` configuration as follows and the client is initialized with authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, the implemented instance of  the `http:OutboundAuthHandler` is passed to the `http:Client` configuration as follows and the client is initialized with authentication.
```

> The following example represents how a client is secured with Basic auth with above mentioned configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example represents how a client is secured with Basic Auth with the above-mentioned configurations.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/auth;
import ballerina/http;

auth:OutboundBasicProvider basicAuthProvider = new({
    username: "user",
    password: "ballerina"
});
http:BasicAuthHandler basicAuthHandler = new(basicAuthProvider);

http:Client secureHelloWorldClient = new("https://localhost:9092", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: basicAuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

> _Note: It is better to use HTTPS when enforcing authentication and authorization checks, to ensure the confidentiality of sensitive authentication data._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Note: It is better to use HTTPS when enforcing authentication and authorization checks to ensure the confidentiality of sensitive authentication data._
```

#### Advanced Use Cases

##### Implementing Custom Authentication Mechanism

> The user can implement a custom version of AuthHandler and AuthProvider with the use of object equivalency pattern as follows. With that, `http:Client` can be enforced with custom authentication and authorization mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The user can implement a custom version of the AuthHandler and AuthProvider with the use of the object equivalency pattern as follows. With that, the `http:Client` can be enforced with custom authentication and authorization mechanisms.
```

```ballerina
public type OutboundCustomAuthHandler object {

    *http:OutboundAuthHandler;

    public function prepare(http:Request req) returns http:Request|http:AuthenticationError {
        // Custom logic to prepare the request.
    }

    public function inspect(http:Request req, http:Response resp) returns http:Request|http:AuthenticationError? {
        // Custom logic to inspect the request after the initial outbound call.
    }
};
```

```ballerina
public type OutboundCustomAuthProvider object {

    *auth:OutboundAuthProvider;

    public function generateToken() returns string|auth:Error {
        // Custom logic to generate the token. 
    }

    public function inspect(map<anydata> data) returns string|auth:Error? {
        // Custom logic to inspect the data map received from the AuthHandler. 
    }
};
```

#### JWT Outbound Authentication

> Ballerina supports JWT Authentication for clients. The `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` is used to issue a JWT against the `jwt:JwtIssuerConfig` provided by the user. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to add the HTTP `Authorization` header with the value received from the AuthProvider as `Bearer <token>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports JWT Authentication for clients. The `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` is used to issue a JWT against the `jwt:JwtIssuerConfig` provided by the user. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to add the HTTP `Authorization` header with the value received from the AuthProvider as the `Bearer <token>`.
```

> JWT issuing requires several additional configurations for `jwt:JwtIssuerConfig` including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JWT issuing requires several additional configurations for the `jwt:JwtIssuerConfig` including:
```

> * `username` - JWT token username.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `username` - JWT token username
```

Reviewer: Need to check all the places

* `issuer` - JWT token issuer.
* `audience` - JWT token audience.
* `customClaims` - Map of custom claims.
* `expTime` - JWT token expiry time.
* `keyStoreConfig` - JWT key store configurations.
  * `keyStore` - Keystore to be used in JWT signing.
  * `keyAlias` - Signing key alias.
  * `keyPassword` - Signing key password.
* `signingAlg` - JWT signing algorithm.
  * `jwt:RS256` - The RSA-SHA256 algorithm.
  * `jwt:RS384` - The RSA-SHA384 algorithm.
  * `jwt:RS512` - The RSA-SHA512 algorithm.
  * `jwt:NONE` - Unsecured JWTs (no signing).

> `jwt:JwtIssuerConfig` record should be provided into `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` when initializing and the initialized `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler` when initializing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The`jwt:JwtIssuerConfig` record should be provided into the `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` when initializing and the initialized `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler`.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/jwt;

jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider jwtAuthProvider = new({
    username: "ballerinaUser",
    issuer: "ballerina",
    audience: ["ballerina.io"],
    keyStoreConfig: {
        keyAlias: "ballerina",
        keyPassword: "ballerina",
        keyStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaKeystore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
http:BearerAuthHandler jwtAuthHandler = new(jwtAuthProvider);

http:Client downstreamServiceEP = new("https://localhost:9091", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: jwtAuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

> The `http:Client` defined in the program calls the the `http:Listener` which is secured with JWT authentication (Same example used in JWT inbound authentication).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `http:Client` defined in the program calls the the `http:Listener`, which is secured with JWT authentication (For more information, see the example added under JWT inbound authentication).
```

#### OAuth2 Outbound Authentication

> Ballerina supports OAuth2 Authentication for clients. It supports Client Credentials grant type, Password grant type and Direct Token mode, which is, the credentials can be provided manually and after that refreshing is handled internally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports OAuth2 Authentication for clients. It supports the Client Credentials grant type, Password grant type, and Direct Token mode, in which, the credentials can be provided manually and after that refreshing is handled internally.
```

> The `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is used to create a token against the configuration provided by the user. It can be `oauth2:ClientCredentialsGrantConfig`, `oauth2:PasswordGrantConfig` or `oauth2:DirectTokenConfig` according the grant type user required. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to add the HTTP `Authorization` header with the value received from the AuthProvider as `Bearer <token>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is used to create a token against the configuration provided by the user. It can be the `oauth2:ClientCredentialsGrantConfig`, `oauth2:PasswordGrantConfig`, or `oauth2:DirectTokenConfig` according to the grant type that is required by the user. The `http:BearerAuthHandler` is used to add the HTTP `Authorization` header with the value received from the AuthProvider as the `Bearer <token>`.
```

##### Client Credentials Grant Type

> OAuth2 token issuing requires several additional configurations for `oauth2:ClientCredentialsGrantConfig` including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OAuth2 token issuing requires several additional configurations for the `oauth2:ClientCredentialsGrantConfig` including:
```

* `tokenUrl` - Token URL for the authorization endpoint.
* `clientId` - Client ID for the client credentials grant authentication.
* `clientSecret` - Client secret for the client credentials grant authentication.
* `scopes` - Scope of the access request.
* `clockSkewInSeconds` - Clock skew in seconds.
* `retryRequest` - Retry the request if the initial request returns a 401 response.
* `credentialBearer` - How authentication credentials are sent to the authorization endpoint.
  * `http:AUTH_HEADER_BEARER` - Indicates that the authentication credentials should be sent via the Authentication Header.

>   * `http:POST_BODY_BEARER|NO_BEARER` - Indicates that the Authentication credentials should be sent via the body of the POST request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `http:POST_BODY_BEARER | NO_BEARER` - Indicates that the Authentication credentials should be sent via the body of the POST request.
```

>   -*`http:POST_BODY_BEARER|NO_BEARER` - Indicates that the Authentication credentials should be sent via the body of the POST request.

Author: ```suggestion
  * `http:POST_BODY_BEARER|NO_BEARER` - Indicates that the Authentication credentials should be sent via the body of the POST request.
```

> * `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations which calls the authorization endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations,which calls the authorization endpoint.
```

> `oauth2:ClientCredentialsGrantConfig` record should be provided into `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler` when initializing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `oauth2:ClientCredentialsGrantConfig` record should be provided into the `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler`.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/oauth2;

oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider oauth2Provider = new({
    tokenUrl: "https://localhost:9196/oauth2/token/authorize",
    clientId: "3MVG9YDQS5WtC11paU2WcQjBB3L5w4gz52uriT8ksZ3nUVjKvrfQMrU4uvZohTftxStwNEW4cfStBEGRxRL68",
    clientSecret: "9205371918321623741",
    scopes: ["token-scope1", "token-scope2"]
});
http:BearerAuthHandler oauth2AuthHandler = new(oauth2Provider);

http:Client downstreamServiceEP = new("https://localhost:9091", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: oauth2AuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

##### Password Grant Type

> OAuth2 token issuing requires several additional configurations for `oauth2:PasswordGrantConfig` including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OAuth2 token issuing requires several additional configurations for the `oauth2:PasswordGrantConfig` including:
```

* `tokenUrl` - Token URL for the authorization endpoint.
* `username` - Username for password grant authentication.
* `password` - Password for password grant authentication.
* `clientId` - Client ID for password grant authentication.
* `clientSecret` - Client secret for password grant authentication.
* `scopes` - Scope of the access request.
* `refreshConfig` - Configurations for refreshing the access token.
  * `refreshUrl` - Refresh token URL for the refresh token server.
  * `scopes` - Scope of the access request.
  * `credentialBearer` - How authentication credentials are sent to the authorization endpoint.

>   * `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations which calls the authorization endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations, which calls the authorization endpoint.
```

* `clockSkewInSeconds` - Clock skew in seconds.
* `retryRequest` - Retry the request if the initial request returns a 401 response.
* `credentialBearer` - How authentication credentials are sent to the authorization endpoint.
  * `http:AUTH_HEADER_BEARER` - Indicates that the authentication credentials should be sent via the Authentication Header.
  * `http:POST_BODY_BEARER|NO_BEARER` - Indicates that the Authentication credentials should be sent via the body of the POST request.

> * `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations which calls the authorization endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations, which calls the authorization endpoint.
```

Reviewer 2: Why are these in italic?

Author: That was a because of a typo in line #1085. Fixed it.

> `oauth2:PasswordGrantConfig` record should be provided into `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler` when initializing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `oauth2:PasswordGrantConfig` record should be provided into the `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler`.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/oauth2;

oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider oauth2Provider = new({
    tokenUrl: "https://localhost:9196/oauth2/token/authorize",
    username: "johndoe",
    password: "A3ddj3w",
    clientId: "3MVG9YDQS5WtC11paU2WcQjBB3L5w4gz52uriT8ksZ3nUVjKvrfQMrU4uvZohTftxStwNEW4cfStBEGRxRL68",
    clientSecret: "9205371918321623741",
    scopes: ["token-scope1", "token-scope2"],
    refreshConfig: {
        refreshUrl: "https://localhost:9196/oauth2/token/refresh",
        scopes: ["token-scope1", "token-scope2"]
    }
});
http:BearerAuthHandler oauth2AuthHandler = new(oauth2Provider);

http:Client downstreamServiceEP = new("https://localhost:9091", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: oauth2AuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

##### Direct Token Mode

> OAuth2 token issuing requires several additional configurations for `oauth2:DirectTokenConfig` including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OAuth2 token issuing requires several additional configurations for the `oauth2:DirectTokenConfig` including:
```

* `accessToken` - Access token for the authorization endpoint.
* `refreshConfig` - Configurations for refreshing the access token.
  * `refreshUrl` - Refresh token URL for the refresh token server.
  * `refreshToken` - Refresh token for the refresh token server.
  * `clientId` - Client ID for authentication with the authorization endpoint.
  * `clientSecret` - Client secret for authentication with the authorization endpoint.
  * `scopes` - Scope of the access request.
  * `credentialBearer` - How authentication credentials are sent to the authorization endpoint.

>   * `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations which calls the authorization endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `clientConfig` - HTTP client configurations, which calls the authorization endpoint.
```

* `clockSkewInSeconds` - Clock skew in seconds.
* `retryRequest` - Retry the request if the initial request returns a 401 response.
* `credentialBearer` - How authentication credentials are sent to the authorization endpoint.
  - `http:AUTH_HEADER_BEARER` - Indicates that the authentication credentials should be sent via the Authentication Header.
  - `http:POST_BODY_BEARER|NO_BEARER` - Indicates that the Authentication credentials should be sent via the body of the POST request.

> `oauth2:DirectTokenConfig` record should be provided into `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler` when initializing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `oauth2:DirectTokenConfig` record should be provided into the `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` when initializing and the initialized `oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider` is passed to the `http:BearerAuthHandler`.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/http;
import ballerina/oauth2;

oauth2:OutboundOAuth2Provider oauth2Provider = new({
    accessToken: "34060588-dd4e-36a5-ad93-440cc77a1cfb",
    refreshConfig: {
        refreshToken: "15160398-ae07-71b1-aea1-411ece712e59",
        refreshUrl: "https://ballerina.io/sample/refresh",
        clientId: "rgfKVdnMQnJSSr_pKFTxj3apiwYa",
        clientSecret: "BRebJ0aqfclQB9v7yZwhj0JfW0ga"
    }
});
http:BearerAuthHandler oauth2AuthHandler = new(oauth2Provider);

http:Client downstreamServiceEP = new("https://localhost:9091", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: oauth2AuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

#### Basic Authentication

> Ballerina supports Basic Authentication for clients. The `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` is used to create a token against the `auth:Credential` provided by the user. The `http:BasicAuthHandler` is used to add the HTTP `Authorization` header with the value received from the AuthProvider as `Basic <token>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports Basic Authentication for clients. The `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` is used to create a token against the `auth:Credential` provided by the user. The `http:BasicAuthHandler` is used to add the HTTP `Authorization` header with the value received from the AuthProvider as the `Basic <token>`.
```

> Token issuing requires several additional configurations for `auth:Credential` including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Token issuing requires several additional configurations for the `auth:Credential` config including:
```

* `username` - The username for Basic authentication.
* `password` - The password for Basic authentication.

> `auth:Credential` record should be provided into `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` when initializing and the initialized `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BasicAuthHandler` when initializing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `auth:Credential` record should be provided into the `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` when initializing and the initialized `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` is passed to the `http:BasicAuthHandler`.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/auth;
import ballerina/http;

auth:OutboundBasicProvider basicAuthProvider = new({
    username: "user",
    password: "ballerina"
});
http:BasicAuthHandler basicAuthHandler = new(basicAuthProvider);

http:Client downstreamServiceEP = new("https://localhost:9091", {
    auth: {
        authHandler: basicAuthHandler
    },
    secureSocket: {
        trustStore: {
            path: "${ballerina.home}/bre/security/ballerinaTruststore.p12",
            password: "ballerina"
        }
    }
});
```

#### Token Propagation for Outbound Authentication

> Ballerina supports token propagation for outbound authentication. The token propagation happens if the user does not provides any configuration when initializing the `auth:OutboundAuthProvider`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports token propagation for outbound authentication. The token propagation happens if the user does not provide any configuration when initializing the `auth:OutboundAuthProvider`.
```

> The `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` reads the token/username from the `runtime:InvocationContext` according to the outbound authentication scheme and use that for the outbound request. The `runtime:InvocationContext` is initialized based on the authentication information from the inbound request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `auth:OutboundAuthProvider` reads the token/username from the `runtime:InvocationContext` according to the outbound authentication scheme and uses that for the outbound request. The `runtime:InvocationContext` is initialized based on the authentication information from the inbound request.
```

##### Example - 1

The following program has an `http:Client` secured with Basic authentication and it is configured inside an `http:Listener` secured with Basic authentication.

> The `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` is initialized without providing any configurations. Therefore, the program gets the token from the `runtime:InvocationContext` and use if for outbound request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `auth:OutboundBasicAuthProvider` is initialized without providing any configurations. Therefore, the program gets the token from the `runtime:InvocationContext` and uses it for the outbound request.
```

> If the downstream service is also secured with the Basic authentication and as same as the upstream service, the user does not need to configure client as this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the downstream service is also secured with Basic authentication and as same as the upstream service, the user does not need to configure the client.
```

> _NOTE: This scenario is same for all the scenarios, where both upstream and downstream services are secured with same authentication scheme and clients is also configured for the same authentication scheme, but without any configurations. The token propagation happens internally._

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_NOTE: This scenario is the same for all the scenarios where both the upstream and downstream services are secured using the same authentication scheme and clients are also configured using the same authentication scheme but without any configurations. The token propagation happens internally._
```

        http:Response resp = new;
        resp.setTextPayload("Downstream service received authenticated request with the token: " + req.getHeader("Authorization"));
        checkpanic caller->respond(resp);
    }
}
```

To enforce Basic Authentication, create a configuration file as follows:

**sample-users.toml**
```
[b7a.users]

[b7a.users.tom]
password="123"
scopes="hello"
```

Start the service using the following command after creating `sample-users.toml`.

```
ballerina run --config sample-users.toml example.bal
```

'Tom' user will be able to invoke the `/hello` resource and invoke the Basic auth protected downstream service.

```
curl -k -v -u tom:123 https://localhost:9091/hello

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> Authorization: Basic dG9tOjEyMw==
> User-Agent: curl/7.60.0
> Accept: */*

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< content-type: text/plain
< content-length: 602
<
Downstream service received authenticated request with the token: Basic dG9tOjEyMw==
```

##### Example - 2

The following program has an `http:Client` secured with JWT authentication and it is configured inside an `http:Listener` secured with Basic authentication.

> The `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` is initialized providing configurations but without the username. Therefore, the program gets the username from the `runtime:InvocationContext` and use it for outbound request.

Reviewer 3: Better to mention that the username is set based on the inbound authentication information.

> If the downstream service is secured with the JWT authentication and with the same username of upstream service, the user does not need to configure client with that username. It is propagated internally.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, the downstream service is secured with the JWT authentication and expects a JWT issued against the user authenticating with the upstream service (protected by Basic authentication). Ballerina can dynamically issue such JWT while propagating the user information internally.
```

        }
    }
});

@http:ServiceConfig {
    basePath: "/downstream"
}
service downStreamService on downstreamServiceEp {

    @http:ResourceConfig {
        methods: ["GET"],
        path: "/"
    }
    resource function downStreamResource(http:Caller caller, http:Request req) {
        http:Response resp = new;
        resp.setTextPayload("Downstream service received authenticated request with the token: " + req.getHeader("Authorization"));
        checkpanic caller->respond(resp);
    }
}
```

To enforce Basic Authentication, create a configuration file as follows:

**sample-users.toml**
```
[b7a.users]

[b7a.users.tom]
password="123"
scopes="hello"
```

Start the service using the following command after creating `sample-users.toml`.

```
ballerina run --config sample-users.toml example.bal
```

'Tom' user will be able to invoke the `/hello` resource and invoke the Basic auth protected downstream service.

```
curl -k -v -u tom:123 https://localhost:9091/hello

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> Authorization: Basic dG9tOjEyMw==
> User-Agent: curl/7.60.0
> Accept: */*

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< content-type: text/plain
< content-length: 602
<

> Downstream service received authenticated request with the token: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsICJ0eXAiOiJKV1QifQ==.eyJzdWIiOiJ0b20iLCAiaXNzIjoiYmFsbGVyaW5hIiwgImV4cCI6MTU2NTUwMzUzNywgImlhdCI6MTU2NTUwMzIzNywgImp0aSI6ImJhMjczNTM5LTcxZWItNDExOC04MzNiLTQyNDlhMjY0MmZmNCIsICJhdWQiOlsiYmFsbGVyaW5hLmlvIl19.OwMHPrQfjpIujHSAIq3ycKsP4SYTR2nW9lBHXBOgIZV6-FcM1Lxz8xtjY1AwcIAd_L4XmiODN_5HYUluZb3jDj1F6ZeI4FQeTKygiGgJs_nTww56bHFQXPe9_IW1zxRGM8G51cJBKxTH6YsOTXgNVhcGoe5f-kaESmGze-XLCnCXgj0GYnG2ECnejSHRh89gjWMyfyMFRDhioPi9IYZEQGIFBQzrModFWXNKQZh5vxaF5KW4KWXLTRgrBX8uY2IIS6S80nf83oaUlrrApieaGf88cwSqOjGjaPpxj3I810qGa996ZVE3P5DkzgxrJYHrJMwcVgBX7sgDFUUcD3RrEA==

Reviewer 3: IMO, it is better to add the diagram we used to map inbound auth mechanisms to outbound authentication mechanisms here and explain all possible combinations that make sense. Let's do it at least as a future improvement.

Author: Yeah. That would be better. I created the issue https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-www/issues/1528 to track this in future improvements.

});

@http:ServiceConfig {
    basePath: "/downstream"
}
service downStreamService on downstreamServiceEp {

    @http:ResourceConfig {
        methods: ["GET"],
        path: "/"
    }
    resource function downStreamResource(http:Caller caller, http:Request req) {
        http:Response resp = new;
        resp.setTextPayload("Downstream service received authenticated request with the token: " + req.getHeader("Authorization"));
        checkpanic caller->respond(resp);
    }
}
```

To enforce Basic Authentication, create a configuration file as follows:

**sample-users.toml**
```
[b7a.users]

[b7a.users.tom]
password="123"
scopes="hello"
```

> Start the service using the following command after creating `sample-users.toml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start the service using the following command after creating the `sample-users.toml` file.
```

```
ballerina run --config sample-users.toml example.bal
```

> 'Tom' user will be able to invoke the `/hello` resource and invoke the Basic auth protected downstream service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 'Tom' user will be able to invoke the `/hello` resource and invoke the Basic Auth protected downstream service.
```

```
curl -k -v -u tom:123 https://localhost:9091/hello

> GET /hello HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:9091
> Authorization: Basic dG9tOjEyMw==
> User-Agent: curl/7.60.0
> Accept: */*

< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< content-type: text/plain
< content-length: 602
<
Downstream service received authenticated request with the token: Basic dG9tOjEyMw==
```

##### Example - 2

> The following program has an `http:Client` secured with JWT authentication and it is configured inside an `http:Listener` secured with Basic authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following program has an `http:Client` secured with JWT authentication and it is configured inside an `http:Listener` secured with Basic Authentication.
```

> The `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` is initialized providing configurations but without the username. Therefore, the program gets the username from the `runtime:InvocationContext`, which is set based on the inbound authentication information and use it for outbound request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `jwt:OutboundJwtAuthProvider` is initialized using the provides configurations but without the username. Therefore, the program gets the username from the `runtime:InvocationContext`, which is set based on the inbound authentication information and uses it for the outbound request.
```

> In this example, the downstream service is secured with the JWT authentication and expects a JWT issued against the user authenticating with the upstream service (protected by Basic authentication). Ballerina can dynamically issue such JWT while propagating the user information internally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the downstream service is secured using JWT authentication and expects a JWT issued against the user authenticating by the upstream service (protected by Basic authentication). Ballerina can dynamically issue such JWT while propagating the user information internally.
```

});

@http:ServiceConfig {
    basePath: "/downstream"
}
service downStreamService on downstreamServiceEp {

    @http:ResourceConfig {
        methods: ["GET"],
        path: "/"
    }
    resource function downStreamResource(http:Caller caller, http:Request req) {
        http:Response resp = new;
        resp.setTextPayload("Downstream service received authenticated request with the token: " + req.getHeader("Authorization"));
        checkpanic caller->respond(resp);
    }
}
```

To enforce Basic Authentication, create a configuration file as follows:

**sample-users.toml**
```
[b7a.users]

[b7a.users.tom]
password="123"
scopes="hello"
```

> Start the service using the following command after creating `sample-users.toml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start the service using the following command after creating the `sample-users.toml` file.
```

```
ballerina run --config sample-users.toml example.bal
```

> 'Tom' user will be able to invoke the `/hello` resource and invoke the Basic auth protected downstream service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 'Tom' user will be able to invoke the `/hello` resource and invoke the Basic Auth protected downstream service.
```
